An important part in microservices development is to first have a service registry.
We talked about how Netflix migrated from a monolith to a microservices approach.
They created a registration server called Eureka which they made open source.
Spring has incorporated it into Spring Cloud,
making it even easier to stand up a Eureka server.
Spring cloud is built on top of
Spring Boot and utilizes the typical parent and starter palms.
In layman's terms, Netflix Eureka service is responsible
for the registration and discovery of microservices.
Every micro service will be registered in the server so that Eureka will
know all the client applications running on each port and IP address.
This way we don't need to know the IP address of each service we create.
We just need to know their names and the discovery does the rest.
Eureka consists of a server and a client component.
The server component will be the registry in which
all the microservices register their availability.
The microservices use the Eureka client to register.
Once the registration is complete,
it notifies the server of its existence.
In our example we'll implement two microservices;
one a service registry that's the Eureka server,
and a rest service which registers itself as a Eureka client, the item service